add tutorial for Bedrock Guardrails (#2695)
opensearch-project/ml-commons: docs/tutorials/guardrails/use_bedrock_guardrails.md

# Topic

> Remote model guardrails has been released in OpenSearch 2.15. For more information, see [Guardrails](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/ml-commons-plugin/remote-models/guardrails/).

This tutorial demonstrates how to apply your Amazon Bedrock guardrails to your externally hosted models in two ways.

Note: Replace the placeholders starting with the prefix `your_` with your own values.

# Use the Bedrock Guardrails Independent API

## 0. Preparation
Create your own Amazon Bedrock guardrails. For more information, see [Create a guardrail](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/guardrails-create.html).

## 1. Create a connector with your Bedrock Guardrails endpoint

```
POST _plugins/_ml/connectors/_create
{
  "name": "BedRock claude Connector",
  "description": "BedRock claude Connector",
  "version": 1,
  "protocol": "aws_sigv4",
  "parameters": {

>     "region": "us-east-1",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "region": "your_aws_region like us-east-1",
```

              {
                "text": "Sorry, the model cannot answer this question."
              }
            ],
            "outputs": [
              {
                "text": "Sorry, the model cannot answer this question."
              }
            ],
            "usage": {
              "contentPolicyUnits": 1.0,
              "contextualGroundingPolicyUnits": 0.0,
              "sensitiveInformationPolicyFreeUnits": 0.0,
              "sensitiveInformationPolicyUnits": 0.0,
              "topicPolicyUnits": 1.0,
              "wordPolicyUnits": 1.0
            }
          }
        }
      ],
      "status_code": 200
    }
  ]
}
```

# Use the guardrails embedded in the Amazon Bedrock Model Inference API

## 0. Preparation
Create your own Amazon Bedrock guardrails. For more information, see [Create a guardrail](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/guardrails-create.html).

## 1. Create a connector for an Amazon Bedrock model with guardrail headers

```
POST /_plugins/_ml/connectors/_create
{
  "name": "BedRock claude Connector",
  "description": "BedRock claude Connector",
  "version": 1,
  "protocol": "aws_sigv4",
  "parameters": {

>       "region": "us-east-1",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      "region": "your_aws_region like us-east-1",
```

      "service_name": "bedrock",
      "max_tokens_to_sample": 8000,
      "temperature": 0.0001
  },
  "credential": {
      "access_key": "your_aws_access_key",
      "secret_key": "your_aws_secret_key",
      "session_token": "your_aws_session_token"
  },
  "actions": [
    {
      "action_type": "predict",
      "method": "POST",
      "url": "https://bedrock-runtime.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/model/anthropic.claude-v2/invoke",
      "headers": { 
        "content-type": "application/json",
        "x-amz-content-sha256": "required",
        "X-Amzn-Bedrock-Trace": "ENABLED",
        "X-Amzn-Bedrock-GuardrailIdentifier": "your_GuardrailIdentifier",

>         "X-Amzn-Bedrock-GuardrailVersion": "1"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        "X-Amzn-Bedrock-GuardrailVersion": "your_bedrock_guardrail_version"
```

      },
      "request_body": "{\"prompt\":\"${parameters.prompt}\", \"max_tokens_to_sample\":${parameters.max_tokens_to_sample}, \"temperature\":${parameters.temperature},  \"anthropic_version\":\"${parameters.anthropic_version}\" }",

>       "post_process_function": "\n      if (params['amazon-bedrock-guardrailAction']=='INTERVENED') throw new IllegalArgumentException(\"test guardrail from post process function\");\n    "

Reviewer: @jngz-es I think we should enhance this part , like add default process function

Author: Yeah, agreed. I can add a default process function in next release version.

# Topic

> > Remote guardrails is released in OpenSearch 2.15. To read more details, see the OpenSearch document [Guardrails](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/ml-commons-plugin/remote-models/guardrails/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Remote model guardrails has been released in OpenSearch 2.15. For more information, see [Guardrails](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/ml-commons-plugin/remote-models/guardrails/).
```

> This tutorial demonstrates how to apply your Bedrock Guardrails for your remote models in two ways.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This tutorial demonstrates how to apply your Amazon Bedrock guardrails to your externally hosted models in two ways.
```

Note: Replace the placeholders starting with the prefix `your_` with your own values.

# Use the Bedrock Guardrails Independent API

> ## 0. preparation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## 0. Preparation
```

> Create your own Bedrock Guardrails. For more details, see the Bedrock document [Create a guardrail](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/guardrails-create.html).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create your own Amazon Bedrock guardrails. For more information, see [Create a guardrail](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/guardrails-create.html).
```

## 1. Create a connector with your Bedrock Guardrails endpoint

> An example command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```
POST _plugins/_ml/connectors/_create
{
  "name": "BedRock claude Connector",
  "description": "BedRock claude Connector",
  "version": 1,
  "protocol": "aws_sigv4",
  "parameters": {
    "region": "us-east-1",
    "service_name": "bedrock",
    "source": "INPUT"
  },
  "credential": {
    "access_key": "your_aws_access_key",
    "secret_key": "your_aws_secret_key",
    "session_token": "your_aws_session_token"
  },
  "actions": [
    {
      "action_type": "predict",
      "method": "POST",
      "url": "https://bedrock-runtime.${parameters.region}.amazonaws.com/guardrail/your_guardrailIdentifier/version/1/apply",
      "headers": {
        "content-type": "application/json"
      },
      "request_body": "{\"source\":\"${parameters.source}\", \"content\":[ { \"text\":{\"text\": \"${parameters.input}\"} } ] }"
    }
  ]
}
```

## 2. Create a remote model with your guardrail connector

> An example command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```
POST _plugins/_ml/models/_register
{
  "name": "bedrock test guardrails API",
  "function_name": "remote",
  "description": "guardrails test model",
  "connector_id": "your_connector_id"
}
```

> ## 3. Model inference

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## 3. Test the model
```

> An example command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

                      "confidence": "HIGH",
                      "type": "PROMPT_ATTACK"
                    }
                  ]
                },
                "wordPolicy": {
                  "customWords": [
                    {
                      "action": "BLOCKED",
                      "match": "suicide"
                    }
                  ]
                }
              }
            ],
            "blockedResponse": "Sorry, the model cannot answer this question.",
            "output": [
              {
                "text": "Sorry, the model cannot answer this question."
              }
            ],
            "outputs": [
              {
                "text": "Sorry, the model cannot answer this question."
              }
            ],
            "usage": {
              "contentPolicyUnits": 1.0,
              "contextualGroundingPolicyUnits": 0.0,
              "sensitiveInformationPolicyFreeUnits": 0.0,
              "sensitiveInformationPolicyUnits": 0.0,
              "topicPolicyUnits": 1.0,
              "wordPolicyUnits": 1.0
            }
          }
        }
      ],
      "status_code": 200
    }
  ]
}
```

> # Use the guardrail embedded in Bedrock model inference API

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Use the guardrails embedded in the Amazon Bedrock Model Inference API
```

> ## 0. preparation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## 0. Preparation
```

> Create your own Bedrock Guardrails. For more details, see the Bedrock document [Create a guardrail](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/guardrails-create.html).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create your own Amazon Bedrock guardrails. For more information, see [Create a guardrail](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/guardrails-create.html).
```

> ## 1. Create a connector of Bedrock model with guardrails headers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## 1. Create a connector for an Amazon Bedrock model with guardrail headers
```

> An example command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```
POST /_plugins/_ml/connectors/_create
{
  "name": "BedRock claude Connector",
  "description": "BedRock claude Connector",
  "version": 1,
  "protocol": "aws_sigv4",
  "parameters": {
      "region": "us-east-1",
      "service_name": "bedrock",

>       "anthropic_version": "bedrock-2023-05-31",

Reviewer: Delete this parameter as this not being used ?

>       "endpoint": "bedrock.us-east-1.amazonaws.com",

Reviewer: This parameter not being used, delete it ?

      "auth": "Sig_V4",

>       "content_type": "application/json",

Reviewer: remove these too

      "max_tokens_to_sample": 8000,
      "temperature": 0.0001
  },
  "credential": {
      "access_key": "your_aws_access_key",
      "secret_key": "your_aws_secret_key",
      "session_token": "your_aws_session_token"
  },
  "actions": [
    {
      "action_type": "predict",
      "method": "POST",
      "url": "https://bedrock-runtime.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/model/anthropic.claude-v2/invoke",
      "headers": { 
        "content-type": "application/json",
        "x-amz-content-sha256": "required",
        "X-Amzn-Bedrock-Trace": "ENABLED",
        "X-Amzn-Bedrock-GuardrailIdentifier": "your_GuardrailIdentifier",
        "X-Amzn-Bedrock-GuardrailVersion": "1"
      },
      "request_body": "{\"prompt\":\"${parameters.prompt}\", \"max_tokens_to_sample\":${parameters.max_tokens_to_sample}, \"temperature\":${parameters.temperature},  \"anthropic_version\":\"${parameters.anthropic_version}\" }",
      "post_process_function": "\n      if (params['amazon-bedrock-guardrailAction']=='INTERVENED') throw new IllegalArgumentException(\"test guardrail from post process function\");\n    "
    }
  ]
}
```

> A `post_process_function` is required to define the logic for the input blocked by the guardrail or not.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A `post_process_function` is required to define the logic for blocking the input by the guardrail.
```

## 2. Create a model

> An example command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```
POST _plugins/_ml/models/_register
{
  "name": "bedrock model with guardrails",
  "function_name": "remote",
  "description": "guardrails test model",
  "connector_id": "your_connector_id"
}
```

> ## 3. Model inference

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## 3. Test the model
```

> An example command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

    {
      "action_type": "predict",
      "method": "POST",
      "url": "https://bedrock-runtime.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/model/anthropic.claude-v2/invoke",
      "headers": {
        "content-type": "application/json",
        "x-amz-content-sha256": "required"
      },
      "request_body": "{\"prompt\":\"${parameters.prompt}\", \"max_tokens_to_sample\":${parameters.max_tokens_to_sample}, \"temperature\":${parameters.temperature},  \"anthropic_version\":\"${parameters.anthropic_version}\" }"
    }
  ]
}
```

## 5. Create a Bedrock Claude model

```
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/_register?deploy=true
{
    "name": "Bedrock Claude V2 model",
    "function_name": "remote",
    "description": "Bedrock Claude V2 model",
    "connector_id": "your_connector_id",
    "guardrails": {
        "input_guardrail": {
            "model_id": "your_guardrail_model_id",
            "response_filter":"$.action",
            "response_validation_regex": "^\"NONE\"$"
        },
        "type": "model"
    }
}
```

## 6. Test the model

```
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/your_model_id/_predict
{
  "parameters": {
    "prompt": "\n\nHuman:${parameters.question}\n\nnAssistant:",
    "question": "hello"
  }

> }

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
}
```
````

> Response

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
Response:

```
````

{
  "inference_results": [
    {
      "output": [
        {
          "name": "response",
          "dataAsMap": {
            "response": " Hello!"
          }
        }
      ],
      "status_code": 200
    }
  ]

> }

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
}
```

````

> POST /_plugins/_ml/models/your_model_id/_predict

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/your_model_id/_predict
````

{
  "parameters": {
    "prompt": "\n\nHuman:${parameters.question}\n\nnAssistant:",
    "question": "how to suicide"
  }

> }

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
}
```
````

> Response

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
Response:

```
````

{
  "error": {
    "root_cause": [
      {
        "type": "illegal_argument_exception",
        "reason": "guardrails triggered for user input"
      }
    ],
    "type": "illegal_argument_exception",
    "reason": "guardrails triggered for user input"
  },
  "status": 400
}

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

# Topic

> Remote model guardrails has been released in OpenSearch 2.15. For more information, see [Guardrails](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/ml-commons-plugin/remote-models/guardrails/).

This tutorial demonstrates how to apply your Amazon Bedrock guardrails to your externally hosted models in two ways.

Note: Replace the placeholders starting with the prefix `your_` with your own values.

# Use the Bedrock Guardrails Independent API

## 0. Preparation
Create your own Amazon Bedrock guardrails. For more information, see [Create a guardrail](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/guardrails-create.html).

## 1. Create a connector with your Bedrock Guardrail endpoint

```
POST _plugins/_ml/connectors/_create
{
  "name": "BedRock Guardrail Connector",
  "description": "BedRock Guardrail Connector",
  "version": 1,
  "protocol": "aws_sigv4",
  "parameters": {
    "region": "your_aws_region like us-east-1",
    "service_name": "bedrock",

>     "source": "INPUT"

Reviewer 3: out of curiosity, what is this value for?

      "headers": { 
        "content-type": "application/json",
        "x-amz-content-sha256": "required",
        "X-Amzn-Bedrock-Trace": "ENABLED",
        "X-Amzn-Bedrock-GuardrailIdentifier": "your_GuardrailIdentifier",
        "X-Amzn-Bedrock-GuardrailVersion": "your_bedrock_guardrail_version"
      },
      "request_body": "{\"prompt\":\"${parameters.prompt}\", \"max_tokens_to_sample\":${parameters.max_tokens_to_sample}, \"temperature\":${parameters.temperature},  \"anthropic_version\":\"${parameters.anthropic_version}\" }",
      "post_process_function": "\n      if (params['amazon-bedrock-guardrailAction']=='INTERVENED') throw new IllegalArgumentException(\"test guardrail from post process function\");\n    "
    }
  ]
}
```
A `post_process_function` is required to define the logic for blocking the input by the guardrail.

## 2. Create a model

```
POST _plugins/_ml/models/_register
{
  "name": "bedrock model with guardrails",
  "function_name": "remote",
  "description": "guardrails test model",
  "connector_id": "your_connector_id"
}
```

## 3. Test the model

```
POST _plugins/_ml/models/your_model_id/_predict
{
  "parameters": {

>     "input": "\n\nHuman:how to suicide\n\nAssistant:"

Reviewer 4: wondering if the test sentences is safe to publish on github? probably this is question for @kolchfa-aws
